Hello.
Yates chooses his
victims at random.
Nadia Decotis was
tortured and killed.
Yates transported
her to his burial ground.
RAFAEL: How many others?
VOIGHT: Seven so far.
No forensics. nothing
to tie him to any of them?
BENSON: Green nail
polish was applied to victims.
He either burned the
bodies or he buried them.
He gets off on
torture. even in court.
You see what we saw?
Just hope the jury saw it.
On the charge of murder
in the First Degree.
we find the defendant.
Gregory Yates. guilty.
NARRATOR: In the
criminal justice system.
sexually-based offenses are
considered especially heinous.
In New York City.
the dedicated detectives who
investigate these vicious felonies
are members of an elite squad
known as the Special Victims Unit.
These are their stories.
Was she dismembered or did
she come apart in the water?
No obvious tears. But there are
cutting marks in the bones and tendons.
Another body here at
Yates' burial ground.
Yeah. some
skinny-dipping teenagers
ditching class
kicked up the vic.
Local precinct gave
us the heads-up.
Thought it might
be one we missed.
How? We covered
the whole island.
And Yates buried his bodies. This
one we found floating in the water.
Just happens to coincide
with when and where
Yates dumped Nadia Rollins.
Okay. What? He buried
Nadia. goes back out to Queens.
assaults two flight attendants.
has lunch with his fiancée. and finds
time for a fourth assault? Come on.
The man was on a spree.
For brunettes. She's a
redhead. It's not his type.
We got nine dead bodies
found here. all by the same killer.
And now we got the
tenth. Occam's razor.
Enough. Guys. listen.
We have two options. one is
bad. the other one is worse.
Either we missed one.
or Yates has a copycat.
Victim is a Caucasian
female. late 20s.
Probable cause of
death. fractured skull.
Right arm severed
surgically at the shoulder.
Dr. Rudnick. are
we interrupting?
No. not at all. Just
notating my initial findings.
Found in Pelham Bay.
so either she floated up as the water
warmed or CSU missed her in April?
So you think Yates did this?
I can't say definitively.
But there are findings
consistent with Yates' MO.
as well as evidence of injury. both
vaginal and anal. consistent with rape.
Even after this
long in the water?
There's no question
the skull was fractured.
just like those of the two
flight attendants and Nadia.
Yeah. but this body was also
dismembered. That's not part of Yates' MO.
Correct. However. I can tell you
the cuts were made by
someone with surgical training.
Uh. and another
interesting detail.
microscopic traces of green
nail polish under two fingernails.
Another coincidence. Rollins?
It's public record.
If you say so.
Ooh. (SIGHS)
That poor. poor girl.
Raped. tortured.
And her skull was fractured.
You think I'm responsible?
I understand. It is
the logical assumption.
We had a saying
in medical school.
"If you hear hoof beats.
think horses. not zebras."
The ME found traces of
green polish on her fingernails.
Really?
Now that is fascinating.
Someone committed
this horrific crime
and then he went out of his way
to piggyback it onto
crimes I've been accused of.
That was my initial response.
And the red hair...
(SCOFFS)
Gingers are anathema to me.
I prefer brunettes.
No offense.
It's a long story.
And the body. dismembered...
It's so unnecessary.
It's so barbaric.
Well. any ideas why
somebody would have done it?
Well. I don't know.
Maybe the killer likes the act
of cutting into bone and flesh.
Do you mind if I...
Have another look?
Go right ahead.
Mmm-hmm.
I'm really sorry.
You...
You have your
work cut out for you.
I appreciate your help. Doctor.
Thoughts are occurring.
If I can. uh. stew on
them for a couple of days.
I might have something for you.
(DOOR BUZZES OPEN)
(DOOR LOCKS)
(THEME MUSIC PLAYING)
Yates told you that
it wasn't him? Yeah.
I bet he still says
that Nadia wasn't him.
But the timeline is too tight.
This girl was a redhead. okay?
He's never dismembered
a body before this.
We found skulls
last time. Amanda.
Yeah. but that was skeletal
remains of decomped corpses.
This is different.
You know. his victims
were never prostitutes.
this girl is a Jane Doe.
Amanda. I don't know
what you're doing.
but this isn't police work.
I am cultivating a source.
Listen. Yates hinted that he
might know who the killer is.
Hinted. but didn't say?
So what. you have
to go back there again.
and then he'll tell you?
He's playing you. This
guy's a psychopath.
Not to mention. Amanda.
you went up there
without clearing it with me.
I'm not trusting your
judgment right now.
Okay. All right. maybe
you guys are right.
So say it is Yates. Just let
me keep building a rapport.
Then maybe we can
finally get an ID on this girl.
(KNOCKING)
Hey. Sarge. sorry to interrupt.
but I finally got a
hit from our DNA.
BENSON: From CODIS?
No. military database. Vic's
name is Brooke Groves. 28.
She was ROTC at
SUNY Plattsburgh.
FIN: Didn't the ME say
she was a working girl?
Well. yeah. but before
that. she had another life.
Last known address
is in Larchmont.
I'll go with.
Actually. Rollins.
you stay here with Fin.
I'll let you know
what we find out.
There you are.
Yeah. They spend all this
money renovating the squad room.
and there's still
nothing to eat.
How you feeling?
I'm just tired.
I've been taking too
many shifts since Nick left.
You talk to him?
(SIGHS) Yeah. Yeah. he's happy.
He's. uh. doing physical
therapy in Laguna Beach.
And he's got some kind of lead
with the US Park Police. so...
You miss him. Is that
what this is all about?
No. I'm pissed off. man.
I get grounded
and this is my case.
I mean. I know more about how
Yates thinks than Carisi does.
Olivia's just looking
out for you. Amanda.
Yeah. How do you figure?
You're good at getting
inside these guys' heads.
Don't let 'em get inside yours.
SONNY: Oh. no. Bikes.
toys? She's a mom.
BENSON: No. they're not hers.
If a mom disappears. they
file a missing persons report.
(DOORBELL DINGS)
Can I help you?
Uh. yeah. we're NYPD.
Um. Manhattan
Special Victims Unit.
We're looking for
a Brooke Groves?
That's me.
Actually. it was me.
I'm Brooke Norwalk now.
Hey. Tommy. Bobby.
go play on the iPad.
Did something happen
to my husband? No.
No. No. no. no. Um. we thought
something happened to you.
I don't understand.
It must have been a mistake.
But we got a body in
the morgue. actually.
Oh. no.
Rachel. My twin sister.
Are you still in touch with her?
Off and on. My husband
doesn't know that.
The boys have never even...
After they were
born. my husband.
he said she couldn't
come around anymore.
She had problems?
Rachel went to pieces
after our mom died.
Drinking. drugs.
She'd call me from the city.
swear she was gonna get help.
I'd go into the city
and give her money.
A few months ago.
she called again.
really high.
and I told her I was
done enabling her.
(EXHALES)
How...
What happened to my sister?
I ran the DNA again. You
two were identical twins. yes?
That's right.
When we were
young. we... (SNIFFS)
Used to dress alike.
No one could tell us apart.
RUDNICK: Brace yourself.
There's significant decomposition.
(SHUTTER OPENING)
(GASPS)
(CRYING) That's Rachel.
(CRYING)
I'm very sorry for your loss.
(BROOKE SOBBING)
SARITA: Rachel Groves.
She stayed here on and
off. She was murdered?
Yeah. We think she was targeted
because she was on the fringes.
FIN: Somebody who
wouldn't be missed.
Rachel was troubled.
That's why I was so happy
when her mother came for her.
"Mother"?
I think it was her mother.
The last time I saw Rachel.
she left with an older woman.
Gray hair. nicely dressed.
When was this?
I'd have to check. It was
still cold. March. April.
I remember the woman
had a long coat and a hat on.
Okay. do you have
security cameras here?
Yes. Come. follow me.
So Rachel was last seen with
this woman. Can the sister ID her?
Uh. no. I mean. their
mother died 10 years ago.
And Brooke doesn't know any
other female relatives or friends.
So who is she?
Obviously not Yates.
And look at the time code.
April 15th. Yates was in custody.
April 15th. 2012.
That's three years off.
Yeah and obviously it's a.m..
but it reads as 11:30 p.m.
The time code was glitched.
Okay. so check the machine.
see what it reads now.
and then adjust it from there.
No. I tried that.
They already reset it once
they realized it was out of whack.
I'll have TARU take a look.
And. Sergeant. So in the
meantime. Yates called me. Twice.
He says he has more information.
He won't talk to anybody but me.
Go. But not by yourself.
(DOOR BUZZES)
(LOCK CLICKS)
You... You brought backup.
I thought this was gonna
be just between me and you.
You thought wrong.
We're here because
we were able to identify
the victim from Pelham Bay.
You know. I already told you
that I had nothing to do
with that girl. Mmm-hmm.
You also told me that
you would stew on this.
that you might be able to
come up with more information.
Besides. it turns out
she had a twin sister.
It sure would mean
a lot to someone
if we could bring her closure.
A twin. Huh.
That is a real bond.
(INHALES SHARPLY)
I would like to help.
but this is a long shot.
but I kept thinking about
those autopsy photos.
The medical
training. the red hair.
and suddenly I was
reminded of this incident
that happened back when I
was becoming a senior resident.
That was what. in 2002?
Yeah. About then.
I got a call from an
attending. he needed stitches.
He called you? Why
not go to the hospital?
Because he was embarrassed.
When I got to the
townhouse. I found out why.
He had bruising and cuts
and what appeared
to be human bite marks
on his inner thigh and scrotum.
He claimed it happened during
some sex game gone awry.
But you didn't believe him? No.
I asked him if his partner
needed medical attention.
He assured me that she
was fine. and that she had left.
Whoever she was. I could sense
that she was still in the house.
There was that clump of
red hair on the floorboards
and I... I could smell her.
Okay. Doc.
No. really. I could.
And it wasn't the sex and
it wasn't the hormones.
it was her fear.
It has a very real
scent. like. uh. ammonia.
What was the name
of the attending?
(CHUCKLES)
I don't wanna
incriminate anybody.
I... I could be wrong.
(SCOFFS)
But I remember
the street. though.
Convent Avenue in Harlem.
The townhouse has
a lovely Juliet balcony.
Sarge. Fin.
Wasn't expecting you.
These are the Changs.
They bought the house four
years ago. did a renovation.
Before that. it had
fallen into disrepair
after the 2007 death
of Manon Favreau.
She was a widow
whose husband's family
actually built this
house in the 1880s.
Okay. thanks for the history lesson.
Carisi. Who lived here in 2002?
Well. we're looking
at tax records.
utility bills. but.
realistically...
Yates could just be
pulling Rollins' chain.
I don't see what he gets
out of that. So we're here.
The couple's given us permission
to do a non-invasive search?
But after all this time.
what are the chances
we're gonna find something?
Sergeant. you're here.
Come look at what we found.
The CSU techs picked up
an image using the GPR.
FIN: What's that?
Ground Penetrating Radar.
It's like a sonogram that
can see inside that wall?
Yes. Fin. See. it
used to be a chimney.
Okay. what's that shadow?
There's something in there.
I bet that's another
Yates victim.
So what. we rip down the wall?
Okay. go tell the owners that that
non-invasive search just became invasive.
(SIGHS)
(WHIRRING)
Little help here.
It's a suitcase.
Great. let's get it out.
(GRUNTS) Something
inside. Should we open it?
Yeah. Go ahead.
(CAMERA SHUTTER CLICKING)
She's mummified.
So Yates' tip paid off. there was
a body in the Harlem townhouse?
In the wall. mummified.
Anything else in the house?
Fin and Carisi are
searching the place with CSU.
We're getting a DNA sample.
As soon as the ME
dates the decomp.
we'll search missing persons.
Why not just ask Yates?
He's a convicted serial killer
who tipped you off to
the location of a corpse
in a house where
he also puts himself.
Rollins has been working him.
He swears that it wasn't him.
(CHUCKLES) You've
got to be kidding me.
RUDNICK: The incisions seem to have
been made by a medical professional.
Pubis and ilium scraped where they
were separated from the adductors.
So she was dissected just
like Rachel Groves was?
The muscle was cut
away from the bone.
(CLEARS THROAT) Hmm.
Detective. you
look a little peaked.
I'm fine. No. I'm good.
Would you...
Dr. Rudnick. Rollins.
A sergeant and an ADA at an
autopsy? Should I be nervous?
Can you tell us anything?
An autopsy like this
is an enigmatic puzzle.
The body was cut.
broken. and tied
with an electrical cord
to fit in the suitcase.
It had to be uncurled.
X-rayed. rehydrated.
Start at the beginning.
Age. cause of death?
Well. she was a white female. From
her teeth. I'd guess about 25. 5'6".
In good physical health.
Cause of death?
The skull was fractured. but I
believe the cause was strangulation.
The hyoid was also fractured.
Body was wrapped in a blanket.
The dry heat and smoke
from the common chimney
effectively mummified the remains.
And. she was in situ for
over a decade. most likely.
How is it she was discovered?
Actually. it was a tip
from Yates. Dr. Yates?
It's a tip or a confession?
Is this another one of his?
I noted no nail polish.
But the incisions do show
evidence of medical technique.
And the fractured skull is not
inconsistent with Yates' MO.
But strangulation is. And
the victim was a redhead.
Yes. So was Rachel Groves.
I'll need to do a
thorough examination.
So far. I've found no
trace of the killer's DNA.
Which is also not
inconsistent with Yates' MO.
"Also not inconsistent
with Yates' MO."
That's ME talk for. "Yates
did it. but don't quote me."
Yates is appealing
his conviction.
Why would he tip us
off to another victim?
He's sick. but he's not stupid.
Rollins. all due respect...
Don't start a sentence that way.
Fine. If Yates didn't do it.
then how did he know
that body was there?
(SCOFFS)
Your DA thinks I'm
the one who did this?
You know. I am the one
who told you all about her.
That's exactly why
he thinks you did it.
Is he always so
circular in his reasoning?
You told me that you
were called to that house.
that you knew a woman was there.
Do you know who she was?
I do. I even know
who killed her.
But enough talk about
what I can do for you.
Let's talk about how
you can help me.
Yates wants to touch
his fiancée. Susie Frain?
Hasn't he touched
enough women already?
Look. they've been together for
20 years. He's never hurt Susie.
And she's okay
with conjugal visits?
She called about it twice.
Every pot has a lid.
Lovely. You do realize how this
would look if word got out. right?
Yates is already on the hook
for multiple rapes and murder.
now he wants to trade
crime tips for conjugal visits.
If Yates is telling the truth. there
could be another serial out there.
So pick your poison. Counselor.
Fine. Bring the fiancée
upstate. Let them conjugate.
And then interrogate
both of them afterwards.
You better be right
about this. Rollins.
(SUSIE AND YATES MOANING)
Okay. we good?
Time's up. Coming in!
Ms. Frain. before you leave. uh. my
detectives have some questions for you.
No one told me about this.
Oh. hey. it's all right.
Just tell the truth.
All right. we have some
questions for you. too.
So much for afterglow.
But a deal is a deal.
Come in here. We'll
have more privacy.
I hope. now that you've
found these two bodies.
you'll be releasing Greg
as soon as possible.
Come again?
I always knew Greg wasn't
capable of these crimes.
He was framed.
The poor girl in Pelham Bay.
she must have been
murdered after he was arrested
or you would have found the
body when you first searched.
Oh. did Greg tell you that?
It's common sense. And Lena. we
were all friends. Greg was fond of her.
Hold... Hold up. Who's Lena?
Lena Grunwald.
The girl in the wall.
I thought she'd gone home to
Switzerland. But she must have never left.
Lena was a lovely girl.
She was over from
Switzerland for her doctorate.
and they met at Columbia.
Met who?
Her fiancé.
(CLEARS THROAT) Well.
on the night that I stitched him.
he said that it was a
sex game gone wrong.
but he had to have
tortured... (GASPS) Oh...
He might have sealed her in
that wall while she was still alive.
Stay with us. Dr. Yates.
Oh. yes. I'm sorry.
That poor woman.
You were gonna give us a name.
I was. Apologies.
Uh. Carl.
Yes. When I was a senior
resident. he was an attending.
Strange man. A
little delicate. pale.
He kept to himself. which is
why we were so sort of surprised
when he got engaged to Lena.
Does this delicate
man have a last name?
Rudnick. Uh. Dr. Carl Rudnick.
That's it. we're
done. Rollins...
I went out on a limb for you.
You think this is a game?
You are gonna be transferred so
far upstate your ass is gonna freeze.
Rollins. let's go.
What did I say?
Dr. Carl Rudnick.
Deputy Chief Medical Examiner
in the borough of Manhattan.
He's a serial killer?
Wait. Carl became an ME?
Oh. no. that... That
really is... That is perfect.
He never liked people.
but he always liked cutting.
Don't even try. Yates.
No. stay. Please.
I need to know.
did he do any of the autopsies
on the girls you found?
Nadia. maybe?
Come on. a man like that.
with all those female bodies
being delivered to the morgue.
having been tortured to death...
That is a trigger.
He would get off on them
and then he would want to
go do another one for himself.
That girl. The girl
in Pelham Bay...
Did Rudnick do her autopsy. too?
Have another ME
recheck the body.
His report didn't say so.
but I'll bet you
dollars to donuts
he cut that girl up
while she was still alive.
Accusing the deputy chief
ME of rape and murder?
And they offered this conspiracy
theory right after their conjugal visit?
Yeah. I know. He worked you two.
And the fiancée worked us. Give
Yates points. That's a bold move.
I'm sorry. You all
were right. I was wrong.
Hold on. Rollins. Now.
look. I'm still only mid-search.
but there was a Lena
Grunwald from Switzerland
who went to
Columbia at that time.
Now. as far as I can
tell. she never graduates.
She just disappears off
the grid in the winter of 2002.
You actually looked into this?
Yeah. Counselor. I did.
'Cause if Yates is taking a flyer for an
appeal. then we have to rule this out.
Now. I'm still new here. But how
well do you guys know Carl Rudnick?
He got here right
before you did.
He came out of
Miami-Dade. I think.
Carisi's right. Yates is looking
to overturn his conviction.
Did Rudnick ever mention that he
went to medical school with Yates?
No. he didn't.
So what if he did?
Yates kidnapped. raped.
tortured. and murdered Nadia.
He is guilty.
The only reason he's bringing up
conflicting evidence is for his appeal.
Still. if they did
know each other.
then Rudnick should
have recused himself.
That's easy enough to confirm.
And while you're at it. see if
Rudnick has any connection to
the townhouse in Harlem.
or if he even knew this
supposed fiancée. Lena Grunwald.
SUSIE: That's Lena.
With Carl. me. and Greg.
New Year's Eve.
2001. in Montreal.
BENSON: So you knew
each other well enough
that you'd all go on
vacation together?
Oh. yeah. Canada.
Europe a few times.
Lena spoke French and German.
She was a great tour
guide. A lovely person.
What can you tell us about her
relationship with Carl Rudnick?
Tempestuous.
They fought. especially when
they drank. And they both drank.
She loved her Gewürztraminer.
Remember the last
time you saw her?
I remember when she left.
Greg threw me a birthday party.
and Carl brought a new date.
He said Lena had broken
off their engagement
and moved back to Switzerland.
And that was...
Early February. 2002.
So you didn't
think it was strange
that she didn't say
goodbye to you herself?
I did. actually.
In Montreal. they were
going at each other.
On the flight back.
Lena told me that
if anything ever
happened to her. Carl did it.
Why didn't you call the police?
I was going to.
But then I got a note
from Lena with a photo
of herself in her
village. Grindelwald.
She apologized. She said
she just had to get away.
And you're sure that it was her?
I thought it was.
You think you may have
kept that note and photo?
I have tons of boxes
in mini-storage.
You think it will
help if I find it?
BENSON: Okay. so Rudnick and
Yates overlapped in medical school.
and Lena was in business
school at the same time.
And Susie just told us
that they were all friends.
Which. as Carisi said.
Rudnick should have disclosed.
It still doesn't mean that
Rudnick is good for this.
Remember. Rollins. Yates tried to
pin Nadia's death on Will Halstead.
He's an opportunist.
I know he is. And I know he's
good for Nadia's murder and.
what. a dozen before.
But this woman in the
wall. I'm not sure about.
'Cause. look. I did a search.
I was trying to find who exactly
lived in this house in 2002.
Now Con Ed and phone bills
both went to Manon Favreau.
The name on the cable
bill. it's under Carl Rudnick.
While it was owned by Manon
Favreau? So he was renting?
More like house-sitting.
It turns out her maiden
name was "Manon Rudnick".
She's Carl Rudnick's great-aunt.
I mean. these ancestry websites.
you'd be surprised what
they know about you.
Okay. So Rudnick
neglected to mention
that the body that we found
was in his aunt's house.
and he was living there when
it was plastered in the wall.
Damn. He autopsied
his own fiancée?
Thirteen years
after he killed her.
We don't know that yet. We don't
even know if the body is Lena's.
Susie told us that Lena sent her
a picture of herself
from Switzerland.
Yeah. well. if she did send that
photo. that's the last trace of her.
BENSON: Do we have any
proof that the body was hers?
DNA. dental records. anything?
FIN: I called Warner.
She said. according to
Rudnick. there's no way to ID her.
There's a shock.
Okay. I'll call the
chief medical examiner
and see if he'll
authorize Warner
to independently
redo both autopsies.
preferably when
Rudnick's not there.
RUDNICK: (OVER SPEAKERS)
The body's well-preserved.
most likely from the
frigid water temperatures.
which lasted well into April.
Let's stop here.
Dr. Rudnick's time of
death may be mistaken.
"May be"?
He says early April.
but based on the
crime scene photos.
it appears the body wasn't
wrapped in plastic or a tarp.
But that's in his report.
Yes. but if this body went
into the water in mid-April.
the fish or crabs would have
nibbled away at the soft tissue.
So. it's more likely early May?
WARNER: I think so.
I'm surprised. frankly.
I mean. it's careless. and
Dr. Rudnick is meticulous to a fault.
He's one of the top
MEs in the country.
What else do you know about him?
He's a guy who works six days a
week. never puts in for overtime.
We all figure family money.
He's obsessed with
his work. Okay. okay.
So his timeline is off.
Is it possible that
he's overworked?
Maybe. And here's
another omission I noticed.
His report neglects to mention
that the dismemberment
took place ante mortem.
So Rachel Groves
was alive? You sure?
Positive.
Cutting into live tissue
always causes a vital reaction.
markedly different from
cutting into dead tissue.
And there's no way an ME would
leave this out or possibly mistake the two?
No. Now you wanna
tell me what this is about?
(SCOFFS)
Uh. I'm sorry Melinda. I can't.
This is an active investigation.
Before I re-autopsy
this mummified body.
is there anything I should know?
Uh. well. she may
be a Swiss national.
We haven't been able to ID her.
That may be helpful.
Okay.
Melinda. watch your
back with Rudnick.
What am I looking at here?
It's proof that the body in
that wall was Lena Grunwald.
Okay. Warner found these
gold overlays on her teeth
that are specific to
German-Swiss dentists.
Yeah. another detail Dr. Rudnick
did not put in his autopsy report.
We confirmed with her dentist
in Switzerland. It is Lena's body.
She never went home?
Well. here's
where it gets tricky.
I finally heard back
from my guy at TSA.
Now according to them.
Lena Grunwald left JFK
for Zurich on
February 11th. 2002.
So? We can't pinpoint
her time of death.
She must have come back.
been murdered sometime later.
Yeah. but there's no
record of her coming back.
So. on a hunch. I
looked at Rudnick's travel.
Now this guy. he's got the
opposite problem. all right?
He returned from Paris
to JFK on February 15th.
but there's no record of him
leaving the US. or even Canada.
Okay. You got a theory
to go with this travel log?
What if Rudnick left the
US using Lena's passport
and then came back as himself?
You're suggesting he was able
to pass as a woman. post 9/11?
Yeah. a red-haired lady
with a Swiss passport.
So outside their profile.
nobody took a second look at her.
And Rachel. the
victim from the bay.
I mean. she was last seen
leaving her shelter with a woman.
Or someone dressed like one.
You using facial
recognition software?
We are. Liv is headed to 1PP now
to get the okay to bring
Rudnick in for questioning.
Call her off. We'll
ask forgiveness later.
For now. I'll find a pretext
to invite him to my office.
So while he's with you. how
about a warrant for his house?
I mean. knives. dresses.
who knows what we'll find.
All right.
(SIGHS)
Please come in.
Dr. Rudnick. just so you know.
everything in this room is recorded.
Have a seat.
Um. Yates is
appealing his conviction.
So this conversation may be
discoverable as part of that process.
Of course. I also
record everything.
Oh. Sergeant Benson.
Yes. Dr. Rudnick. thank
you so much for meeting us.
Just have a few
questions for you.
Certainly.
Okay. this file. do
you recognize it?
Yes. This is the autopsy report
of the Jane Doe you
found mummified.
The Yates victim.
BENSON: And the address where the
body was found. do you recognize that?
RUDNICK: That's bizarre.
I never noticed the address.
My eyes were on
the poor girl's remains.
So you do recognize the address?
It was my great aunt's house.
FIN: Look at this.
Keeps autopsy photos bedside.
He'll probably claim he
takes his work home with him.
BENSON: And this
woman. you recognize her?
RUDNICK: Well. yes. of
course. That's Lena Grunwald.
An old flame of mine
from 15 years ago.
I'm sorry. what's
this all about?
We believe the
body found in the wall
of your aunt's house
was Lena Grunwald's.
Oh. my God. I
didn't recognize her.
And how could I. in that state?
Are you suggesting
I autopsied my ex?
So you didn't know
that she was dead?
Well. of course not. Last
time I saw her was at the airport
when she left for Switzerland.
She must have come
back without my knowledge
and fallen back in with Yates.
Who took her to
your aunt's house.
killed her. and
entombed her in the wall?
That's an incredible
coincidence.
Not really. We all
knew each other.
And I occasionally
entertained at that home.
So. you and Yates
knew each other?
Yes. of course. It's
public knowledge.
We were in med school at the
same time. a few years apart.
He was always
rather jealous of me.
RAFAEL: You and
Yates were colleagues.
Did you ever think to
mention that to anyone?
Well. frankly. no.
When did you last
hear from Lena?
(SIGHS) We broke
up amidst a hard winter.
It was 2002. 2003?
And that son of a bitch.
He always had a thing for Lena.
And killing her is his
way of hurting me.
He did this to hurt you and...
And yet you didn't know
about it for 13 years?
RUDNICK: Well. what other
explanation could there be?
He knew the house. he knew her.
and he's a convicted
serial killer. and ipso facto...
Oh. you can't think I had
anything to do with this.
RAFAEL: We can't?
RUDNICK: Oh.
it's patently absurd.
Dr. Rudnick. then
you wouldn't mind
working through
some of the other.
uh. inconsistencies
that we've found?
Well. not at all.
Given the change in
tenor of this conversation.
I'm contacting my lawyer.
I'd like to exercise that right.
(SIGHS) Feel free.
We will wait to
continue questioning you
until a lawyer arrives.
You realize that
if he is guilty.
then every case
he's testified in...
I know. Every autopsy
he's performed...
I don't even wanna think
about how many convictions
will have to be reopened.
(SCOFFS) Olivia.
Rita. What are you doing here?
I was working out a plea deal
when I got a message from Carl.
Carl. You're
representing Dr. Rudnick?
Everyone is entitled to the
best defense they can afford.
And Dr. Rudnick. or his family.
can afford a very good one.
And that. of course.
is all that matters.
My client's waiting. He'll be coming
with me. He is done talking to you.
Actually.
he won't be leaving.
Rita. It's very good of you
to come on such short notice.
Of course. Carl. But I'm
afraid I have some bad news.
Carl Rudnick.
you're under arrest
for the murders of Rachel
Groves and Lena Grunwald.
You have the right
to remain silent.
Anything you say can and will be
used against you in a court of law.
You have the right
to an attorney...
We'll see you in court.
Dr. Rudnick. how do you plead?
Not guilty. Your Honor.
He is a respected deputy
chief medical examiner
for the borough of Manhattan.
I'm aware of that. Counselor.
With an impeccable reputation.
We request ROR. as the charges
are. on their face. ridiculous.
Mr. Barba?
Dr. Rudnick has been charged
with two counts of first degree murder.
one in which the
victim was vivisected.
The other was found entombed
in the wall of his family's home.
He's already
tampered with evidence.
His position has allowed
him to cover up the crimes.
Through several family trusts.
he has the means
and the motive to flee.
And we have reason to believe
that he has traveled
internationally
using passports from one
of his victims in the past.
Dr. Rudnick only
became a suspect
based on false accusations
by serial killer Greg Yates.
in a desperate attempt to throw
doubt on his own conviction.
Even if that's true.
I'm sure the State
would not waste my time
if they didn't have more
compelling evidence.
Dr. Rudnick. you are to surrender
your passport to the court.
Bail is set at $2 million.
(GAVEL BANGS)
(SIGHS)
Rudnick posted
a $2 million bail?
There's no money
like family money.
It was wired in before
he was even processed.
Hey. Check this out.
"The ME Nobody Knows."
"The Monster in the Morgue."
I mean. these headlines.
they write themselves.
It's a freaky story.
Yeah. Getting
freakier by the minute...
Mommy and Noah will get a little
time later. There you go. sweetie.
Okay. All right. Love you.
ROLLINS: Hey. Sarge.
you're gonna wanna see this.
Great. You got something?
Yeah. Facial recognition
came back on that TSA photo.
It's definitely not Lena.
Yeah. the jawline is wide by two
centimeters. the symmetry is wrong.
And they also say it's not
inconsistent with Rudnick.
This guy has a closet full of wigs
and dresses. We know it's him.
We may know it's Rudnick.
but Barba wants proof.
We need that photo of Lena in
Switzerland that he sent to Susie.
Well. I've been trying to
reach Susie. So far no luck.
All right. Rollins.
let's call Yates. Now.
Something happened to Susie.
She was supposed
to call this morning.
She would never just forget.
When's the last time
you talked to her?
YATES: Last night. She
said she had good news.
"Good news"?
She said that she
had found the photo
that Lena supposedly
sent from Switzerland.
She felt it looked a
lot like Rudnick in drag.
Was she gonna tell Rudnick that?
No. I don't think so.
Wait. he's still in
custody. isn't he?
No. he made bail last night.
Oh. no.
(SIRENS WAILING)
She's not here?
No. And I doubt she
went along willingly.
(DOOR CLOSES)
Blood's mostly dried.
It's been a while.
Get a BOLO out on Rudnick. ASAP.
Then head over
to Real Time Crime.
We're gonna need
a task force. TARU.
TSA. Port Authority
Police. You know the drill.
On it.
Hey. Sarge. Sarge.
I might have heard something
come over the borough-wide.
Got freshly cut body parts
coming in with the tide.
"Cut"? Were they female?
(SIGHS)
What do we have?
Well. we're still putting
the pieces together.
Some fishermen saw the bags
coming in about an hour ago.
SONNY: And this
is why I hate fishing.
Learned that growing
up in Staten Island.
We're a long way from Elmhurst.
We're not sure it's Susie.
We are now.
(EXHALES)
(THEME MUSIC PLAYING)